We are finally to the last step of our sign up process.
So we are now considering a user to be signed in and that means we need to somehow generate a cookie
or a JSON web token, something like that, and send it back over to the user.
And the user should then use that token, that cookie, whatever it is to attempt to access other services
inside our application and prove that they are actually signed in.
Now, handling authentication, handling the process of making sure that someone is sending us a request
who is logged into our application is deceptively challenging in microservices.
So we're going to first start off with a little disclaimer here, handling it, user authentication.
So in other words, giving a user a cookie, a JSON web token or something similar and allowing them
to access other services inside of our app is a challenging problem that is not really solved.
In other words, there is not really a perfect solution to handling this stuff.
There is not some strategy where we just say, Oh yeah, use a cookie or use a JSON web token and try
everything works that doesn't exist.
So instead, with microservices and in the context of this course, I'm going to try to outline a couple
of different possible approaches in handling authentication approaches in how we can say, Hey, user,
here's a cookie, or here's a token of sorts.
Give this to us in the future and how we can decide whether or not a user truly is authenticated.
We're going to take a look at these different solutions, and I'm going to eventually show you one that
is going to work.
But it is definitely by no means perfect in nature.
Okay, so enough this disclaimer.
Let's get to it.
So.
I want you to imagine for a second that eventually inside of our application, which remember is all
about selling tickets and whatnot, that we will eventually have some kind of service called the Order
Service.
And inside this order service, the goal is to allow users to purchase a ticket.
So we can imagine that inside that service, we'll probably have something like ticket purchasing logic.
It'll probably be a request handler, something like that.
We could definitely imagine that at some point in time someone's going to send a request to the service
with the goal of purchasing a ticket.
Maybe in the body of the ticket, they'll have the ticket ID or the body the request or the ticket ID
or something like that.
And of course, along with this request, a user is going to have to prove that they are authenticated
with their application.
So along with the request, they're going to have to include some JSON Web token, some cookie or something
similar.
Something to say, I am signed in.
Then inside of our request handler, we are going to have to have some logic to say, is this person
actually signed in?
Did they give us a valid JSON web token?
Did they give us some cookie with some authentication information inside of it?
And we need to decide whether or not this person who's sending us this request is actually signed into
our app.
So this whole discussion we are about to have and this whole disclaimer right here about user authentication
really comes down to how we answer this question.
How do we decide whether or not someone is logged in in a microservices app?
This is way more challenging and deceptive than you would think.
So again, I'm going to show you two big approaches.
Here is approach number one.
Now on this first approach, I've labeled it fundamental option number one.
The reason I'm putting the word fundamental in here is that I'm going to show you two general approaches
to general strategies.
But there are very much variations of each of these.
At the end of the day, though, all the different strategies out there really come down to two very
fundamental principles.
That's why I'm calling this fundamental option number one.
Again, you're going to find variations of this, but it really comes down to this idea.
The idea is that we are going to allow individual services to rely on some centralized authentication
service to decide whether or not a user is logged in.
So let's again imagine that same scenario where someone's make your request to purchase a ticket.
It goes into our order service.
We then need to ask and decide whether or not this person is logged in.
So to answer that question with fundamental option number one, we might take that JSON web token or
that cookie or whatever else and send it in some synchronous request off to our authentication service.
And the authentication service might have some logic to take a look at that JSON web token, that cookie
or whatever else, and decide if this user is authenticated.
And so it would be up to the authentication service to send a response back over.
Now remember, I'm using the term here sync request not in the world of JavaScript, but in the world
of microservices.
In the world of microservices, sync request refers to a direct request from one service to another
one that does not make use of events or event buses or anything like that.
So the downside of fundamental option number one really shares all the same downsides as synchronous
communication in general.
If we put together this kind of solution right here, think about what would happen if the authentication
service just mysteriously went down one day.
If that thing crashed or just disappeared all of a sudden, no one, no service inside of our entire
application can decide if a person is logged in.
And that means that any request that requires us to decide if a person is authenticated is automatically
going to fail.
So by using this fundamental option, number one, well, we are going to be in a world of hurt if anything
goes wrong with our authentication service.
That's a very clear downside to fundamental option number one.
All right, let's move on.
I'm going to show you some other pros and cons as we go on.
But right now, let's just go on to the next option.
Now this is option 1.1.
So it's really the same as what we're just looking at, just about identical in nature, but we just
kind of move some stuff around.
At the end of the day, fundamental option number one is still very, very close to option number one
because we are still relying upon the service 100% of the time.
The only reason I'm showing you 1.1 right here is to help you understand that, yes, there are variations
in these strategies.
So with this strategy, we would say that any request coming into our application would need to go through
some central gateway of sorts that would authenticate the incoming request.
So whenever a user makes a request to purchase a ticket, rather than going directly to the order service,
we would instead have it flow into some authentication gateway or some authentication service of sorts
that would inspect that incoming request and decide if the user is authenticated.
If they are, we would then send the request along to the intended destination.
Otherwise we would just reject it right away.
This still shares a lot of the pros and cons of this option number one right here, because we still
have 100%.
Reliance on the authentication service.
In both cases, if this thing ever goes down or if this thing ever goes down, all of a sudden we cannot
make a single request that requires any kind of authentication.
Again, I'm only showing you this option 1.1 to say, yeah, there's variations on these things, but
they are, at the end of the day, very similar in nature.
Now let's move on to the next option.
What's really option two?
What's different approach we could take here?
Well, here's option number two.
With fundamental option.
Number two, we are going to teach each individual service how to decide whether or not a user is authenticated.
So for example, whenever someone makes a request to purchase a ticket to our order service and inside
there, we need to decide whether or not this person is logged in.
Then we will teach this service how to take a look at the request, JSON, web, token, cookie, whatever
we are using and decide whether or not the user is authenticated.
So in this scenario, we have no dependency on outside services, no dependency on a gateway, some
other service or anything like that.
Everything is wrapped up inside of one single service, and if a user ever makes a request to this thing,
we will immediately and instantly know whether or not this user is logged in.
And so the upsides of this approach are very clear.
We do not have any outside dependency, as we did previously on this service.
If you give us a token and it's valid, hey, you must be logged in.
We're good to go and we will process your request.
So it immediately might seem like fundamental option number two is way better because we don't have
any outside dependency.
There is a very clear and immediate downside that you could probably imagine, and that is that we're
going to end up duplicating this authentication logic between all of our different services.
I want you to know right now that's not a big deal.
We could easily move this authentication logic into a shared library that's used among all of our services.
And so we can really just have very few implementations that get shared all over the place.
So I'm not really concerned about duplicating any of that logic, but there are some much more larger,
fundamental, very critical downsides of fundamental option number two.
And you really need to understand these because these the issues are and fundamental option number two
is where we are going to start to see that microservices communicating with each other is really, really
challenging.
Now this video is running a little bit long.
So let's take a pause right here.
We're going to come back the next video.
And I want to show you the absolute, very critical to understand downsides of option number two, even
though it looks like it's really great as it stands right now.
So let's continue in just a minute.